We're in the HEAP building, hoping... Heap Center.
Heap Center, I'm sorry.
Heap Center, that's H-E-E-P, hoping that it's going to rain later this afternoon.
Murray, test yours.
One, two, three.
As we begin, Murray, for the sake of a stranger who might not know you and your background,
Would you begin this reminiscence by describing your background before you came here as a student?
Where was home?
Where'd you grow up?
What did mom and dad do for a living and so forth?
Well, Heskel, I grew up on a family farm in northeast Texas in the southwest corner of Lamar County.
Texas.
Our main cash crop was cotton, but we grew corn and alfalfa and had a few cattle and raised a few hogs and raised a few chickens.
It would have been hard to starve us off of that place and went to, started school at a small country, one-room country school called Milford, named after a great-grandfather.
Proceeded from there at the same year Texas went from 11 to 12 year system.
We closed the one room school and moved to town and well they didn't move to town, but the students transferred to town and we went to school in Honey Grove.
I was actually in the Roxton district, but we transferred to Honey Grove and they had permitted us to do that.
That was our place of business where everybody went, where we knew people.
So I began the fifth grade and
Honey Grove and went through high school there.
You were in high school and you moved to Honey Grove when?
Well, I went to Honey Grove.
We stayed on the farm.
I was all the way through high school in the same home.
Actually, my mother lived in this home 73 of her 77 years.
So the farm was passed down on my mother's side.
How many acres?
It was, well...
When my mother and dad married and he purchased the, quote, her Hudson home place from her brothers and sisters, I think there were about something near 100 acres, I'm not sure.
But by the time my dad died, he had made it to 274 acres, something of that sort.
So he had bought a couple of other farms in the process.
Why did you decide to come to Texas A&M?
Never thought of doing anything else.
My dad had a brother who was in the class of 26 here, who was six years younger than my dad.
He was a civil engineer.
And my dad never attended college at all.
My mother went three years to Texas A&M Commerce, what was then East Texas State Teachers College,
and to get a teacher's certificate.
So she didn't get a degree, but she went long enough to get a teacher's certificate.
And that was only 24 miles from our home.
My dad had gone into World War I, dropped out of high school as a junior in high school, right at the end of World War I, served two years, and went back after his return from the service and finished high school, senior year.
But both mother and dad emphasized education, and they both came from families where teaching was an honorable profession.
So I think neither my brother or I never considered anything but that we'd go to college and that we'd go to Texas A&M.
My dad was such a fan.
Did you come to visit before you came to enroll?
Yes, I was here a number of times.
I came down as a freshman on a poultry judging team.
I came down as a junior or senior on a livestock judging team.
And I guess in those years, certainly in the years before I came down, my mother's sister and husband lived in Brine.
He was a manager of Woodson Lumber Company.
which is located at that time at the intersection of College and Texas Avenue, where they come together there right near the south end of downtown Bryan.
So they were here for a number of years.
So I'd been down, I don't know, probably three, four, five times anyway before I came down to school.
When you came to enroll, describe how you got here, who brought you, and what did you bring along?
Of course, I was going to be in the Corps.
And we'd been told ahead of time that we didn't need much stuff.
And I had a trunk.
And I don't remember exactly, but I think we must have sent the trunk down on a bus.
Because when I came to enroll the first time, four students, we came down with a fellow from Honeygrove who was a sophomore.
And three freshmen came down with him, one of them, one of whom decided to enroll at Texas A&M in the local cafe on the weekend before we came down.
I don't think he'd given a thought about school or what he would do, but he came down with us.
And so there were four of us in the car.
We brought everything other than presumably those trunks that maybe some of us shipped.
I don't remember us being real crowded in the car.
We didn't have anything on top of it or pulling anything behind it.
We just, four of us came down in an old Chevy sedan.
The one kid who decided to come didn't have any money to pay his tuition fees.
I had, I'd been valedictorian of this little high school
So I got a tuition waiver.
It was worth $25 a semester.
Got the tuition waiver, and my dad had given me enough money that he presumed it was going to take me through the semester.
And as I recall, it was probably in the $300 to $400 range.
The other boy didn't have any money to pay, so I loaned him with tuition fees and his room boards.
It seems to me the payment was something like $100, $125, and I loaned him that money.
Just word of mouth, I loaned him the money.
When I went back home, my dad chastised me for doing that.
He said, son, that's money, and any time you deal with money, even if it's a good friend, you need to have something on paper.
Well,
The boy's uncles were in the grocery business in Honeygrove.
In fact, they had the grocery store in Honeygrove.
And they, of course, made his debt good, and I was something extra special in the eyes of those, his mother's brothers who ran that grocery store from there on that I'd done it.
Incidentally, he didn't, that fellow didn't graduate from A&M, but he did make it into the sophomore year.
And one of the other boys that came down with us was killed in a car wreck in the sophomore year.
So I was the only one, I guess, you'd say, out of those three freshmen who came down from Honeygrove, I was the only one to graduate.
Describe getting onto the campus and getting to the right place and the right dormitory and all that.
Oh, Haskell, I don't remember those details at all.
We came down with a fellow who was a sophomore, so undoubtedly he knew how to tell us how to find things.
And this is the fall of?
Fall of 1951.
And if I'm not mistaken, that was the first year that freshmen were back on campus proper.
They had been out at the Annex through, I believe, 48, 49, 50, something like that.
And the freshmen were all housed in the fall of 51.
We were housed on the north side of the campus.
So we occupied Milner and Leggett.
I was in Milner Hall as a freshman, now the math department.
What outfit were you assigned to?
Oh, it was, we just had several Air Force outfits and several companies, they called them.
And I think I was in Company 11, as I recall.
It was oriented to quartermaster, but the quartermaster units were over in the upper class area.
We only had a cadre of,
of upperclassmen that lived with us, no sophomores.
In that fall, and actually for two years thereafter, you really, in a way, you had two freshman years here because as a freshman, you lived separately on the North Campus.
We occupied dorms.
We occupied Walton, Leggett,
Miller, Mitchell, which is no longer there, and 14, 15, 16, and 17, we knew all those dorms by numbers rather than name.
But we, all those dorms were full of freshmen.
And we had a few juniors and a few seniors that lived with us as you say company, NCOs or sergeant level and seniors.
And occasionally, they would let sophomores from the other area come over and eat with us in the dining hall or something of that sort.
But basically, in the area around Duncan Hall, the sophomores were the lowest thing on the totem pole because there were no freshmen in that area.
And that didn't happen until the fall, I think, my senior year.
I know that my senior year, we had freshmen living with us.
And that would have been the fall of 54.
or describe the routine for these freshmen then living over on the north side of the campus, and I presume eating at Sebesa.
At Sebesa Hall.
Describe the routine in the dormitory and the dining hall and so forth.
Well, of course, you had a lot of freshmen relative to upperclassmen, so, but you had,
I think they must have done, at least as I observed it, a fairly careful job in selecting the upperclassmen that lived with us.
So they were, on the whole, they were reasonable sorts.
But there was a lot of tomfoolery that went on.
And I can remember, I don't remember much about the early weeks.
I remember they'd get us in the hall in the evening and have company meetings.
And I remember on one occasion being asked to look at the person on your left and one on your right and at yourself.
realized that only one of you were gonna be left when this thing was all said and done.
I also remember a fella from, I can't remember his name, but a fella that came in from Colorado.
His dad pulled up in a Cadillac and they parked on the north side of Milner Hall and he just had a car full of clothes, absolutely full of clothes he brought down with no use.
I mean, we were gonna have a uniform.
Most of us didn't have three changes of clothes,
He had a car full and he spread all of these shirts and things he had out on the bed and somebody found or had what looked like a pile of dog dung or something in an old molded fiber kind of shape and put that right in the middle of one of those white shirts on the bed and it was quite a sight to see this old boy pick up a sheet of paper and try to scoop that
pile of crap off of his shirts.
He didn't last a week.
He was gone before the week was out.
We suffered quite attrition in those days, but another fellow and I, it just hasn't been terribly long ago, pulled out our picture, and I think the picture for the outfit was taken in the spring, so we'd already lost quite a few at that time.
I think we started with about 125 freshmen in that outfit.
It was a large number.
We occupied
the first two floors and part of the third floor of Milner Hall.
Anyway, we counted in this picture, and I think roughly half, we knew that roughly half of the students that were taken in that spring picture got degrees from A&M.
Not all of them in four years, but they'd gotten degrees.
So I don't think the shrink was quite as great as they might have suggested.
Did you all have the same routine of getting up before Reveille?
Oh, yeah.
Did you have to go clean up somebody else's room?
No, I never did.
I suppose different people may have done different things, but I never remember cleaning up an upperclassmen's room.
This was...
Of course, you have to remember, not too long after World War II, the reason, as I understand it, the freshmen were sent out to the annex, O'Brien Air Force Base, was because there was so much resentment about the hazing.
You have kids coming back from World War II and maybe 20, 21, 22 years old and have some 17, 18-year-old sophomore try to tell somebody what to do that had been through the gore of the war.
That didn't go over very well.
So they were totally separated.
So when we came back on campus, I think there was a real strong intent to try to eliminate the hazing as much as possible.
For example, they used to fall us out in the hall maybe 4, 30, 5 o'clock in the morning and have to drop your pants and show your backside to keep
I mean to cut down on any paddling.
And I wasn't aware really of any paddling in our outfit on except one occasion.
Had a beer bust frequently.
And I think this particular one was at Hensel Park.
I don't remember for sure.
But I had two roommates in my first semester of freshman year.
We had our bunks three deep.
And my two roommates were Gene Faltine, was a kid, big German kid from Comfort, Texas.
Been a big high school baseball player, football too.
The other fellow was Tommy Bingham, who was from Lovington, New Mexico.
And Tommy had, let's say, just lived
a life that would have had, he had a lot more experience in a lot of areas for young men than either Gene or I apparently did.
But Tommy liked to drink quite a bit.
And on this particular beer bust, he got loaded.
I expect some of the upper craftsmen got loaded.
A lot of us had come back to the dorms sooner.
Anyway, Tommy came back in
drunk and they had obviously done some beating out in the woods and they didn't have paddles.
They'd obviously used sticks that they'd picked up someplace and maybe even exchanged some licks between freshman and upper-classmen.
I don't know.
But Tommy's rear end looked like a piece of corrugated metal roofing.
I mean, it was just, oh, it looked horrible.
Within just a few days of
of that incident, we had one of these inspections out in the hall, and there was some mad powdering of his backside to conceal the damage that had been done to it, and apparently it worked, because either people chose not to see it or didn't see it, but in any event, there was never any consequence of that.
Describe, as well as you can recall,
that first fall, a typical class day, that is a Monday through Friday day.
When did it start and what happened when and so forth?
Oh, golly.
We didn't have any classes during lunch hour.
But you had, well, wait, start with Reveille.
Oh, Reveille.
Well, everybody had to get up and everybody went to breakfast at the same time.
Six o'clock?
Sometimes we had to march a little before breakfast, but our outfit didn't do a lot of that.
I don't remember.
I know classes started at eight and so we'd been up and faced inspection and made our beds and room, cleaned our rooms up and had breakfast and so I, my best memory is breakfast was probably about 6.30.
Maybe it was seven.
But we probably had to fall out sometime shortly after six o'clock.
I don't remember the exact time.
Most of us were lock stepped in classes.
you came in and you were assigned a section, and you went to practically all of your classes with the same group of students.
Now, like in a chemistry lecture, there might be several sections put together for the lecture, but when it came to lab, the labs, you were all in exactly the same section.
Paige Morgan and I, who's also in our,
The department, as you know, lives here locally now.
We were in the same, quote, in the same section through that.
So we had all of our first semester classes together.
And it was in agriculture.
Of course, we had labs.
Most of us had labs.
Most of us took, I think, probably that first semester freshman year, about 18 hours.
So we were in class, actually in class, counting our labs and things.
We were in class 27 to 30 hours a week.
Probably didn't, it had CQ as we have now.
We had to be in our rooms from 7.30 to 10.30 at night.
It lights out.
I don't remember, but probably 11 o'clock or so.
Typically during the week, Monday through Friday, were you and your buddies out at Northgate or anywhere else?
Heavens no.
Not in that freshman year.
The only, the only time there was any freedom at all was Friday night.
And during football season, of course, you had to yell practice.
If we were having it locally here, you had to go to the midnight yell practice on Friday night, which incidentally was held at the Grove.
And this third roommate I'm telling you about, more than one Friday night, he'd come in before midnight yell practice drunk.
this big old German kid and I'd prop him up between us.
Must have been a terrible odd looking sight to get him there because I was about five foot six and this German kid is six foot two and we'd prop this 5'11 guy between us and make sure he got to Yale practice back.
In that era, would a freshman have dared not go to Yale practice?
Well,
They, they, I mean, it would have been a terrible risk to take, but I know probably freshmen did.
It was, freshmen tried almost everything.
We had, in our unit, we had four freshmen from Wellington, Texas, and they became the, the ground out, ground out experts in the, in the dorm.
They, they practiced.
They, they, with each, using each other, you know, one in bed,
The one handling the stick, they cut the ends out of these old wooden coat cases and cut a notch right where the handle grip was, in the center of that, so that it just slipped down over a door.
Most of the doors opened to the inside, so you could slip that stick down over the doorknob on the frame of the door and against the door, and the only way anybody could get out of the room was break the stick.
And some guys could do it.
But so they practiced.
They would go down and see from the time they opened somebody's door until they got in there and they dumped the water on somebody and that person immediately jumped from the bed to try to get to the door.
Could they get out, get the door shut, get the stick down on it before people got out?
They were experts.
We had an upperclassman, not in our outfit, but in another outfit on the fourth floor who was really, really obnoxious.
They saved all kinds, I say they because I really don't remember contributing into this at all, but they put
ink and urine and everything you could think of in a wastebasket.
And they drowned this guy out in the middle of the night.
And, of course, they kind of, they splashed and they got it on their feet and stuff.
Well, you could track ink all the way down from the fourth floor down the stairs from the third.
Well, by that time, of course, the foot had lost most of the material they'd collected.
The guy upstairs pretty well knew it wasn't somebody in his outfit.
He pretty well knew it was somebody out of our outfit that drowned him out.
I don't remember what consequences, but we celebrated that he'd gotten his just rewards.
As that year is getting started, what did you think your major was going to be?
Well, I pretty much knew.
I never changed my major.
From the time I came until I graduated, until I'm working today.
And, well, emphasis, yes, but not major.
I majored in agronomy.
And why did I major in agronomy?
Well, of course, I'd grown up on the farm.
I was interested in agriculture.
I thought I might want to go back to the farm.
But I didn't want to, I didn't like dehorning cattle.
I didn't like castrating pigs and giving animal shots, that kind of thing, not my cup of tea.
And this sophomore who I came down with, I'd talked to him some in the, and I guess in the year when he was back home and other things about, and found out he was majored in agronomy.
And he told me that was a good major.
That's how I chose it.
Just because I didn't know half the majors they had.
I just knew agriculture.
I didn't know all the different options.
I just knew I didn't want animal science.
That's made a lot of agronomists.
So at that point, you didn't know yet whether your goal was to be back in production agriculture or in academic.
That's right.
And I think it was more likely at that point to be back in production agriculture.
Please share any memories you have of those first classes.
What were they like and the teachers and any lasting impressions?
What was the routine of class?
Oh, golly.
I honestly don't remember
any specific teacher I had the first semester.
I remember the second semester, we had to take, they had orientation classes you had to take.
And in the second semester, I had to take a course on, oh golly, something about civilization.
I thought it was absolutely the most boring.
class I ever had in my life.
Had a D in basic at mid-semester.
Scared me to death.
I'd make, have a D in basic.
Either the first or second semester, I took botany 101.
And I don't remember, I can't, I can't tell you the name of that teacher.
A relatively good lecturer, but, but as far as a major academic course other than P. Chem that I took after I was in graduate school,
That botany course was the most difficult thing I ever took in my life to get my hands on for some reason.
I'm definitely not so much a plant-oriented person and I just had an awful time with botany class.
But I took, when we came down they tested us about placing and they had what they called a chemistry 109 and there was a chemistry 101, 102.
If you tested well enough, when you came down, they would put you in chemistry 109.
So you get out of freshman chemistry in one semester rather than put two semesters in it.
I'd had high school chemistry, but I had a basketball coach.
And I thought at the time it was practically a worthless course because he talked about basketball in high school at least two-thirds of the hour.
But he did give us a quiz every day.
And he made us learn how to balance chemical equations.
He made us learn chemical symbols.
He made us learn valences and all these kinds of things.
And much to my utter and complete surprise, when I came down to A&M and took that test, they put me in chemistry 109.
I was absolutely dumbfounded.
I remember that was one of the courses I had the first semester, but it was no problem.
I don't remember anything negative about it.
I remember I had to be average first semester.
And you don't know who taught it?
No, I don't.
I sure don't.
So you didn't, as far as you recall, you didn't have that first semester, any of the legendary... No.
No, I don't think so.
I don't think so.
I had some...
I don't remember exactly when I took Zoology 107, but I had Dobson for that.
And I don't remember any nickname, that kind of thing, for Dr. Dobson, but I remember him as being a really good teacher.
As far as you understood, what were the rules of behavior, dress and behavior at A&M for going to class?
Well, for almost all of us to wear a uniform.
Well, we didn't have to think about what to put on in the morning.
And it had to pass inspection.
So the brass had to be shined, the shoes shined.
You had winter uniform, summer uniform.
Now that I think about it, you ask about when we first start.
Well, one of the things I remember about that first week is standing in line to get those uniform issues.
That was a terrible experience.
Of course, we had those old barracks buildings, and there was a, as best I can remember, a one-story long, it would be, I would say roughly where Blocker Building is now, that it was a warehouse.
It was kind of a warehouse, and they had all these uniforms in that warehouse.
The organization for issuing those uniforms was horrible.
And of course, if you remember the fall of 1951, we were just in the,
good middle or start of the drought period, and it was hotter than the Hammers of Hades down here.
No air conditioning in those dorms.
There's hardly any air conditioning on campus.
The place I remember as air conditioning was Memorial Student Center, which had been open the year before.
I think that was the only place air conditioned, any place.
Maybe a few research labs that were with window air conditioners, but other than that,
And so we had to go over to this warehouse to get our uniform.
You had to stand outside in line.
And that, of course, people would get so frustrated because you could stand in line half the day and get within five or ten of the door and somebody would come out and say, well, we're going to take these ten.
We're closed up for today.
You have to come back the next day.
So people would write all kinds of words of wit along the wall, outside wall of this building, and that was,
provided a little levity as you slowly migrated along, get in, and see what somebody had written up there two or three days before.
They'd talk about how many died here the previous day and all kinds of smart remarks and comments.
But we stood in line for everything.
Of course, that's happened until fairly recent years.
I used to always advise freshmen, even after I came back, if you see a line, get in it.
There must be something on it for you at the other end.
All right, in the classroom, what were the standard behavior rules, written or unwritten?
Oh, I don't remember anything.
I don't remember any kind of discipline problem or anything.
But some people let folks sleep, go to sleep in their class.
Oh, they did?
That kind of thing.
But as far as, I don't think discipline was even considered to be a problem.
ever.
What about if you had an unscheduled afternoon?
What did you and your buddies do?
Gosh, I don't remember such a thing.
I really don't.
I mean, I had class virtually every morning, every afternoon.
They'd probably try to catch sleep if they could.
On Saturdays, we could go to Guy and Hall and go to the movies and
As I recall, sometimes they had triple feature.
You got over there early enough after lunch.
On Saturday, you could see the afternoon feature, the evening, the late evening for 35 cents.
You might see three movies.
Anytime a monkey showed up on the screen, you'd hear 100 to 150 people say, hey, old lady.
Roommates were referred to as old ladies.
Hey, old lady.
No, most cars, we didn't have cars.
We didn't have any way to even get into Bryan.
Do you remember when you went back home the first time that fall?
Oh yeah, I surely do.
After I'd been down here only 10 days.
They let us go home for the weekend.
That's before classes started.
They let us go home that last weekend after, well, they call it now, FOB week or something.
But anyway, we came down, as I recall, on a Tuesday or Wednesday, and then we were here through that weekend, and all the next week we got to go home.
Yeah, I remember it pretty well.
Had to ride a bus.
And there was no easy way to get to Honeygrove, Texas on the bus.
We went from College Station to Waco to Dallas to Sherman, and my parents met me in Sherman, Texas.
It was, I think it took me 22 hours to get to Sherman.
And I had lost, I want to say 18 pounds, but I'd lost enough weight
that I must have looked a fright to my parents.
My mother told me later that if I had uttered one word about wanting to stay home, that there would have been no squabbling at all.
They would have let me stay home.
I don't remember how I got back to campus, but I suspect, I can't remember if I rode the bus back.
But I suspect they took me to Dallas and I caught the train.
I did that a number of times thereafter because there was a train that left Dallas at 5 o'clock on Sunday afternoon and pulled back in here at 8.
That was not a bad time.
And a lot of Aggies rode that train.
But I hitchhiked some, not very much.
I hitchhiked some.
But, yeah, that's the first time I went home, and I don't know if I went home again before Thanksgiving or not.
I probably didn't.
Had you ever hitchhiked before coming to A&M?
No.
What did your family think about your hitchhiking?
I don't think they thought very favorably of it, but they didn't think very much 22 hours on the bus either.
Did you ever have any negative experience hitchhiking?
Well, I've ridden with drunks before, driving.
I had, the scariest ride I ever had was between Dallas and Greenville one time.
They would generally meet us in Greenville if we hitchhiked, but that was frightening.
I wanted to get out of that vehicle almost as soon as I'd gotten any.
I had a friend from Paris, Texas who,
Hitchhiked a lot more than I did over the years.
And of course, yeah, you could have some, I've heard of really horrible experiences.
And was there in almost every town a known location where Aggies hitchhiked?
Absolutely.
We had a known, at Eastgate, where if you were going to hitchhike away from here, north or south, you were supposed to go to Eastgate and stand in line and
People didn't do it, but in Dallas and Waco and Houston, yeah, there were hitchhiking points.
And you were really, if you got a ride inside that hitchhiking point at the town, you were supposed to get out when you got to the point and let whoever was first in line take your place.
Generally, I think people just got down real low in the car when they passed hitchhiking point and kept coming.
But that was the rule.
Everybody understood that would be the rule.
And rank did not matter at those.
That's right.
No.
Did anybody ever try to pay off and give the guys in front of them a little extra money to get to be first?
Never saw it.
I've never heard.
Nobody's ever mentioned it in any of these interviews.
No, never heard of it.
Let's see.
During your undergraduate years,
There must have been, you mentioned one good drown out routine.
There must have been other jokes, pranks, good bull.
Share some of those.
Whether you knew, whether you were involved in them or not.
Well, probably the, one of the worst things I was involved in, well I remember several things, but first in sophomore year, we were in dorm 12, which is beside Duncan Hall on the west side.
And Governor Jester, Richard Jester was governor at the time, and he came over for some event.
Anyway, he was going to make a speech in Knuckin Hall.
And I was a sophomore at that time, and we had a, our sophomore, we were in a, I would say I was in a
a liberal outfit as things go.
There was far more emphasis on academics and athletics than there was on military.
We were not a very military outfit.
But we were good academically and we were good athletically.
And we had two or three guys that were really cut up.
So one of the sophomores decided that he was gonna drown out Governor Buford Jester.
That he could get him from the north end of the dorm.
I don't think he actually threw the water, but it was to hear that being planned and just feeling what could happen to us if one of our buddies drowned out the governor.
That was a scary, that was a scary deal.
When I was a junior, there were some cannon, a couple of cannon that were displayed over here by Walton Hall, these old field cannon.
And we decided we were in dorm seven at that time.
And we decided that for football on football weekend, having those cannon in front of dorm seven would be an appropriate thing rather than having them in front of Walton Hall.
So we got mostly sophomores, bearing in mind, freshmen weren't even over there with us.
So the sophomores in the outfit, we were probably 25 or 30 of us.
And maybe we had some juniors in with us.
I don't remember all the details, but we went to Walton Hall.
I don't remember how we dislodged those cannons and what was done there, but we rolled, manually rolled those cannons.
Wonder one of us hadn't gotten killed, because it was really, it was dangerous to roll those heavy things, but we rolled them from Walton Hall to our dorm, and so when everybody woke up Saturday morning, we had the cannon in front of our dorm, and held the pay, too.
because they fell us right out.
And before marching in for the football game or anything, guess what we got to do?
Roll those cannons back to Washington Hall.
But we had our moment of glory with them.
We enjoyed that.
What about any tricks on upperclassmen?
Oh, I guess drowned outs were the most common thing that happened.
We had somebody pull their heads on some commodes when we were juniors in dorm seven and almost floated us out.
I think we attributed that to the jocks, the cavalry, they were a rough bunch of customers.
We really weren't, that quartermaster outfit was not much of a hell raising outfit.
We were, as I say, there was much more emphasis on
academics and athletics than there was a lot of hell raising.
I've had two or three people tell me about a fish day.
Was there a fish day when you were?
Yeah, I think there was.
When freshmen take sophomore privileges or something.
I don't remember any particular instances about that.
Mess Hall, there were several
back when I was a freshman there were several freshmen in our outfit that were from Beaumont or in the immediate vicinity of Beaumont and they had a lot of friends who were sophomores and juniors and those friends would come over and eat with us in Cebisa when they let sophomores come over and eat with us and we didn't like them most of us not from a Beaumont area didn't like them very much because
They tended to scheme with their fish buddies and take the kush away from the rest of us.
We had kush questions, as you know, in those days.
What were some kush questions?
Oh, how many buildings faced true north and south on the campus?
How many lights were in the ceiling of Sabisa Hall?
Well, they could ask you the day that any building on the campus was built.
That was fair.
Now, was there a correct answer to any question?
Oh, yeah, there were correct answers to all those questions.
You bet there were.
Yeah, there were only, in those days, there were only three buildings that faced true north and south.
or east-west, true direction.
Well, there was the Trigon, the Trigon, the front of it is true west direction, and the front of the Evans Building over here, and Evans, Bell, Bell, Bell Building, one over here on the corner.
That's a true, and what was the other one?
I think it was Austin or Pfeiffer Hall, one.
They're no longer here.
Like I've heard, how many stars are there in the Texas flag?
And if you say one, they say no, it's two.
There's one on each side.
And if you say two, they say no, there's one.
It goes all the way through.
I hadn't heard that.
Well, they had a lot of tricks to Kush questions.
If an upperclassman didn't want you to eat Kush, you didn't eat Kush.
I mean, it was that simple.
You could know a lot of campusology.
They gave us a book of campusology.
So you expected to know the book.
That was given to you early?
Oh, yes.
Probably that first week when we were down here before crisis started.
What were some of the nicknames for Aggie names for various food and beverage?
Well, a lot of those are on the wall over there in the MSC in Hill's carvings.
And some of those, bread was gun wadding.
Iced tea was stud and eggs were cackle and ketchup was blood and, well, let's see, milk was lachy and hot chocolate was, what do they call it?
Mud, I guess.
Mustard was baby.
Was fried chicken, what was chicken?
Yeah, I don't remember.
We call meat bull neck, but I don't remember.
Yeah, but chicken wasn't bull neck.
No, I don't remember.
Was there anything for sausage?
Bacon?
Don't remember.
Gravy?
Yeah, what was the name for gravy?
It was widely believed, incidentally.
It was widely believed.
that any gravy was laced with saltpeter.
So not a lot of gravy was used.
And as far as we know, that was a myth.
Yeah, as far as I know, that was a myth.
What was your impression of the food, the quality of the food?
Generally quite good, if you got to eat it.
Sometimes, as a freshman, you didn't have much opportunity to eat it or chew it.
What would be the circumstances that would keep you from it?
Well, there was such a thing as a square meal, which was not often, but I've seen people have to do square meals.
There was such a thing as being in a hurry.
All of us ate at exactly the same time.
At 12 noon, you had lunch, or 12, 15, whatever it was.
And many of us had class at one.
And we marched in, and it was served family style.
We had student waiters, usually 10 of us at a table, seniors on the end, freshmen would be on the hot corner or sophomore if you were over in the other area.
And so if you start getting harassed from an upperclassman, you might sit there to brace half the meal and not have much opportunity to eat.
But generally, generally, I thought the food was quite good.
The thing that I found most distasteful just from appearance was roast beef.
They used to serve us sliced real thin and have all the colors of the rainbow in it.
I just never thought that roast beef ought to have all the colors of the rainbow in it.
And I don't know that it would necessarily always taste so bad, but the appearance was not very appealing.
But I thought
We ate reasonably well.
Did you have some favorite foods and desserts?
Well, coconut cream pie is one of my favorite desserts, always has been.
We had it occasionally.
I loved it any time we had fish.
I love fish and I love fried fish.
Once in a blue moon, we'd get steak.
That was a real treat.
Fried chicken wasn't bad.
I don't remember that much about foods, you know, that I especially liked or didn't like.
I guess that roast beef was what I least liked to see on the platter.
When did you begin to feel like, okay, this is going to work out, this is my place?
Yes, because I knew from almost the day I got here, I wasn't, you know, they could talk to us about who was going to stay and who was going to leave and that kind of thing.
But I determined very early on no upperclassman was going to have the privilege of running me off.
So that you never doubted.
I never, you know, I doubted sometimes how much I was going to enjoy it.
but I never doubted I was gonna stick.
I don't think I ever thought about not sticking.
First of all, there were just too high expectations from home.
Even though my mother and dad would let me stay home that weekend, it would've, particularly my dad, he would've been crushed.
It would've crushed my dad for his son not to stick it.
So I never, I never, I don't ever remember giving a thought
And you didn't have any grade troubles ever.
No, not really.
Not really.
Now that, my, one of the three freshmen that I had a room with at first semester, he flunked out.
He's the experienced guy.
I mean, he couldn't, he just couldn't discipline himself to do the study.
Very bright guy.
And surprisingly enough, somebody that I stay in touch with to this day.
Exchange Christmas cards every year.
I've only seen him one time since the end of the semester in 1950.
Well, it'd be 50, when I came down to 51, yeah.
So it'd be January of 52, I've seen him one time.
Did you develop early on